Стационарные (клас. модели, ср знач и дисперсия постоянны) (arma) и нестационарные ряды (машин. обуч, arima) - рождаемость и международные перелёты
Одномерные и многомерные
Моментные (курсы акций, числ. населения) и интервальные (годовая, мес. динамика производства)
Полные и неполные временные ряды
Детерминированные и случайные временные ряды

-----
С сезонными компонентами - SARIMA


-----------------------
Time series analysis is used for non-stationary data—things that are constantly fluctuating over time or are affected by time. Industries like finance, retail, and economics frequently use time series analysis because currency and sales are always changing. Stock market analysis is an excellent example of time series analysis in action, especially with automated trading algorithms. Likewise, time series analysis is ideal for forecasting weather changes, helping meteorologists predict everything from tomorrow’s weather report to future years of climate change. Examples of time series analysis in action include:

Weather data
Rainfall measurements
Temperature readings
Heart rate monitoring (EKG)
Brain monitoring (EEG)
Quarterly sales
Stock prices
Automated stock trading
Industry forecasts
Interest rates

Further, time series data can be classified into two main categories:

1) Stock time series data means measuring attributes at a certain point in time, like a static snapshot of the information as it was.
2) Flow time series data means measuring the activity of the attributes over a certain period, which is generally part of the total whole and makes up a portion of the results.
---------------------------------
Stationarity is a crucial aspect of a time series. A time series is determined to be stationary when its statistical properties such as the average (mean) and the variance do not alter over time. It has a constant variance and mean, and the covariance is separate from time.
Seasonality refers to periodic fluctuations. For example, if you consider electricity consumption, it is typically high during the day and lowers during the night. In the case of shopping patterns, online sales spike during the holidays before slowing down and dropping.
Autocorrelation is the similarity between observations as a function of the time lag between them. Plotting autocorrelated data yields a graph similar to a sinusoidal function.
-----------
time seires can be:
1) Univariate
2) Multivariate
3) Multiple

Methods to check Stationarity:
Augmented Dickey-Fuller (ADF) Test
Kwiatkowski-Phillips-Schmidt-Shin (KPSS) Test


